From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes or
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists, Scott Hanselman and
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number eight
recorded Monday, February 27th, 2006. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
automated QA makers of tests.
Providing automated testing of windows.net
framework, Java and web application
online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com. And by Peter bloom.com
start with better controls finish
with better sites online at
www dot P E T
E R B L U
M. Dot com. Support is
also provided by.net developers journal
the world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott talks about free.net developer
tools and visual studio.net addicts.
. Hi, this is Carl Franklin.
You're listening to Hanselman in
show number eight. Here I
am with Scott again. Hi
Scott. Hello, sir. And what
are we talking about this
week? Well, we're talking about,
just about everything, but right
now I'm thinking about visual
studio ins and things that
add value for free. Okay.
Free is good. I like
free. I like things. There's
lots of applications that I
use where I'm on the
fifth or sixth 30 day
trial. I want to really
know an application kicks, but
before I pay my hard
earned money. Okay. So what
do we got today? Well,
the one tool that I'm
excited about, I think I
mentioned in a previous briefly
in the continuous integration talk
was the, the MSB Microsoft
build Everett environment. Yeah. This
thing is just hot. I
mean, right now, Microsoft really
bringing up two new things
that are adding a lot
of value to visual studio,
2005. The one that everyone's
talking about of course is
Scott Guthrie's web project. Add
in that we'll cover in
a second, but the one
I think is being kind
of ignored as these ms.
Build extras. This ms. Build
Everett environment. I think they've
changed it to MSB where
the means extras. Okay. But
it's really the Everett environment.
And this is a thing
that you would, you would
go into your projects and
add these targets and you'll
be able to build dotnet
one, one code from within
visual studio, 2005. Oh, that's
great. It's very cool. This
would be a really great
way to begin moving your
development team over to visual
studio 2005 and two. Oh,
but you want to continue
to help the customers that
are using.net. One, one, there's
also situations. If you target
1.1, you'll be able to,
to, to work on all
three versions of, of the
diamond Framework. Whereas if you
just, you know, compile the
two, well, you won't be.
Yeah, exactly. I think that
we're going to see people
continue to extend environments like
this. I remember I mentioned
on the continuous integration talk,
a guy named Carlos Cara,
I think who implemented a
target for mano. So you
could basically run ms. Build
and build mano from within
visual studio, 2005. I think
there's an, there's an N
there's going to be an
unsupported kind of cottage industry
spinning up around ms. Bill.
There's a lot of really
slick stuff people have been
been coming up with around
EMIS build. Another one is
actually a series of ms.
Build tasks@shrinkstir.com slash C H
R. And these are basically
tasks that have been added
by the community and put
into a, put into gut.net.
David yak originally pointed to
this, and it's been posted
up on Scott Guthrie's site.
I mean, just dozens and
dozens. I'm just, I'm looking
at this list. Subversion execute
VSS, check-in zipping files. XSLTs
creating app pools within IIS,
sending mail running. I mean,
everything that you'd want. Wow.
That's awesome. Yeah. Very cool
stuff. It's a lot like
the Nant contrib stuff that
we saw where people who
ran the Nant, the NAND
opensource XML based make file
project a would add things.
And it ended up showing
up in the Nat contrib
project, but creating those tasks
somehow it was kind of
hard people didn't didn't make
as many as I thought.
And ms build though, apparently
these tasks are easier to
make and people have gone
absolutely bonkers with them. It
looks like it's becoming its
own little application platform. Yeah,
it really is. It's a
tiny workflow. Actually. I had
a conversation with some of
the, I was talking to
the Microsoft build guys and
I commented on how the
windows workflow, XML based workflow
manager and the MSB and
ms. Build XML based workflows
are kind of the same
thing. Like why couldn't ms.
Build? Yeah. Taking XML, angle
brackets and turning it into
it's a coding language. Right,
right. It'd be integrated somehow
with workflow. And they knew
that they said, yeah, we
can see how there's this,
this imperative XML based programming
thing that's going on. And
then if you look at
XAML XAML is doing the
same thing. It's attaching angle
bracket elements to intent, to
programmer intent. So I think
it's kind of ironic. It's
the curse of backup Good
compatibility. That's what it is.
Yeah. I guess it is.
But it's also that Microsoft
is so big now with
what is it? 30 or
35,000 folks worldwide that the
light bulb gets invented three
times in three different places
by three different teams. And
that's why you get MSN
messenger and windows messenger. Whichever
one works the best. That's
the way six different image
editors. Yeah. Yeah. So MSB,
very cool stuff. Check that
out. Shrinks your.com/c H P
M and then the web
project stuff. This is a
really interesting thing. Not just
because of what it does,
but because of what it
says is that one Microsoft's
really willing. I think now
to admit that maybe they
didn't realize people were using
their product in this way.
And when they removed the
ability in asp.net to Oh,
for a site to have
a project, an actual CS
project, VB project file, that
kind of was a manifest.
They tossed that. And I
said, Oh no, just point
to a directory. And that's
your web project, right. Maybe
that was a mistake. And
they're saying that by saying,
we're not only gonna release
this, this tool, this add
on a series of new
project types, they're going to
give you all of the
behavior you were used to
in visual studio, 2003, but
all the new features in
2005, like we factoring and
test development in generics and
all that kind of stuff,
and we're going to support
it. That's pretty rock and
sweet. It's pretty awesome. Sort
of an acknowledgement that they,
they sort of said, oops,
you know, we want to
put this back. Yeah. It's
like, okay, I get it.
You guys, you, you have
said on the blogs very
clearly. We like this. And,
but they're being very cool
about it. They're like, all
right, it's going to be
exactly like this. It's gonna
make life so much easier.
And actually Chris sells@salesbrothers.com just
blogged about this. Recently he
had tried to port sells
brothers.com a very high traffic
site over to asp.net to
Oh, a while back and
basically just got sick of
it, gave up and, and
was sad. It was sad.
Excuse me. Yeah. Then he
poured it last night in
an, in a single night
using that, that preview application.
And he said it was
a treat. It should just
worked. That's great. So for
people who are thinking about,
is it time now to
move their 2003 application to
2005, this web application project
makes it so much easier,
much more comfortable builds everything
right into the bin folder,
just like you're used to.
And as he said, it's
free and it's supported. So
there you go. Right now,
it's in beta too. But
when it's finally released, it
will be completely supported. I
think that's very cool. Make
sure you take a look
at the known issues. Of
course, there are things that
you're doing that might not
be kosher. Okay. So, but
MSB and web project, two
things that you just got
to plug into visual studio,
2005 Christian wire and the
guys over at think texture.
I've got their contract first
application version 0.6 for dotnet
two Oh visual studio, 2005.
It's a free download. And
this is fantastic. You build
your wisdom, file yourself, maybe
using XML spy. And when
you bring that into the
visual studio environment, it's not
as rich of an experience
as you would get. When
you do code first, go,
when you write your code
and you Mark it up
with web methods, they are
closing the gap on that
visual studio likes things code
first, right? You make a
file. You say, hello world.
And you visit your ASM
X page question, Mark wisdom
and wisdom gets popped up.
They do the opposite of
that. They really believe that
contract first, the wisdom represents
the contract with their stuff.
You can right click on
the wisdom file and they
will generate the proxy stubs,
the server side stub for
you as if you had
run wisdom dot exe from
the command line. So the
idea is you define the,
you define what you want
this thing to do and
how you want it to
look. And then it generates
the code. Yeah. You know,
the analogy I usually give
is the, of the Chinese
restaurant. If I were going
to open up a Chinese
restaurant, I can do it
two ways. I could build
a kitchen, put a bunch
of food in the kitchen,
and then I can have
someone run around in the
kitchen. And basically auto-generate my
menu by gleaning from looking
at my kitchen, what I
could potentially sell as a
Chinese restaurant, right. Or I
could build the menu. Right.
I could decide what I
want the public facing kind
of the expression of my
company and my Chinese restaurant,
regardless of what's going on
in the kitchen, there may
be complete chaos going on
in the kitchen. Right. Band-aids
dropped in the food, all
sorts of nasty stuff. Yeah.
But I don't want that
expressed. That's representing the contract.
You don't typically want people
poking around in your kitchen
to auto-generate the public face.
Right? So a lot of
people who run small businesses
that would really rather that
folks not see how their
businesses run as long as
these two, as long as
the public faces is good.
And contract first is a
really great way to do
that, but there's stuff doesn't
just run whistle that he
see, it's a complete reimagining
of this of wisdom that
I see it'll do strongly
typed collections. It gets rid
of all the nasty details
of wisdom. And the other
really interesting thing is that
if you've already got a
series of schemas, like describing
your messages, your request and
your responses, they'll even, auto-generate
some of the wisdom for
you. So very cool stuff
at a, I think texture
Strongly type collections is even
any kind of collections has
been a problem with web
services. We've always been told
to use a raise. Exactly.
And the trick is that
as long as it implements,
I list in the correct
way, they'll they'll serialize. Right.
And they handle all that
for you. Yep. Very cool
stuff. Another guy was wondering
how I do the, the
cool code markup on my
blog. I always like my
code to be marked up
with the right colors and
look, look nice, syntax highlighting.
And this is an old,
an old tool, but, but
a good tool. The copy
source, HTML strength, stir.com/ .
And this is an add
in that will basically add
something to your right click
menu within visual studio. And
instead of just copying your
code to the clipboard, it'll
copy, apply a style sheet,
send the whole thing as
HTML to your clipboard. You
can decide to margins and
font, color, font size. Oh,
cool. And then paste it
directly into your blog. And
I use this all the
time. It doesn't necessarily make
pretty XHTML CSS, Wemo, wham,
but it's still pretty sweet.
It's pretty horrible example on
their webpage of colors. And
then if, I guess it's
just to make the point.
Yeah, you can do whatever
you want. I think the
colors on the website are
pretty nasty, horrible, but they're
there. The colors that I
pick out of the standard
colors are very cool. Don't
let the nastiness of their
website turn you away. No,
it's just to make the
point and drive it home
that this can be anything.
Exactly. And this is written
by calling caller and a
very cool stuff. Totally free.
If you're going to be
posting source on your blog,
have a strategy. No one
wants to look at the
poorly formatted, you know, blogs
and you, and that's actually
a larger issue that whether
or not someone reads your
blog and stays at your
blog may not necessarily be
whether your theme is pretty
or your HTML for the
general blog is pretty but
consistent, clean, crisp formatting of
your posts. I think can
tell someone that you're serious
about blogging or not. Right
now you use reflector, right?
Oh yeah. Religiously. Yeah. Reflector
is the bomb. Let's rotor
as a God. I've said
it before. I'll say it
again. But one of the
great things about reflector, other
than the fact that, you
know, you just download it
and it just works and
it updates itself. And it's
the first thing I put
on almost every machine I've
got, that's got.net. Yup. But
also the it supports add
ins. It's got a really
rich add in ability and
people have been just riding
addons all day long. There's
a list of admins@shrinks.com slash
. Wow. Look at that.
I had no idea. These
existed, Check it out. Look
at the reflector. Diff oftentimes
I'll send a DLL off
to QA and they want
to know, well, what's changed.
I can see that the
dates are different. I can
see the version numbers different,
but I really can't let
this go into production unless
I'm sure that just this
one thing has changed. I
thought you'd do a diff
between two binaries at the
ILO level. Oh, that's so
cool. Now the reflector file,
this assembler. Imagine what you
could do with that. Along
with like MSN search, the
local desktop search or Google
desktop search, you could decompile
the entire dotnet framework into
a folder and then use
the text search tools to
poke around in the quote
unquote source code for the.net
framework. Searching it rather than
using reflector. Wow. Very hot.
The code metrics stuff is
also nice. Not as nice
as the DX core stuff
from code rush, but still
pretty sweet. The tree map
is bizarre. It's a visual
tree map. Like those ones
that show you how much
space your files and your
hard driver using calm you
are. It looks cool too.
Yeah. And then reflect or
graph fantastic for explaining to
your boss how complicated or
not complicated, your, your dependency
tree of all your different
objects are very cool. Yeah.
Very impressive stuff. There's also
ones that will spit out,
you know, cause reflect, spit
out different languages. You know
how reflector will let you
say, well, show me, this
is VB. Sure. They've got
ones that'll spit out. Manage
C plus plus or Delphi.
Maybe Mark Miller would like that.
Or iron Python. There's also
one for a language called
BU, which is a very
cool new dotnet language. That's
kind of impressing people. So
take a look at open
running assembly. This one's fantastic.
You can actually open up
an assembly from a running
process. So you don't want
to say, wait a second.
What's in that process. Right?
You were like, see a
rogue process and you want
to say, I know there's
some dotnet in there. I
want to see what they're
doing. Oh, that's so cool.
Yeah. It'll rip that open
for you. Very cool stuff.
Now, if you look at
open running assembly and you
also use the process Explorer
tool from sysinternals, this is
the replacement from, for task
manager. I didn't know about
that. Where is that? Oh
my goodness. Sysinternals sys internals.
This is Mark Russinovich. These
guys are, they're just gods
they're there. They're just amazing
people. These are the kind
of people where, you know
how other people would meet
like Tom cruise or Jamie
Fox or see them on
the street and stop them.
I would actually stop Russinovich
on the street and say,
dude, I love your work.
I use file Mon by
sysinternals. But so these are
the same guys, obviously. Exactly.
So take a look at
process Explorer. They're on version
10 Oh six. They just
released a new version. This
is a replacement for, for
task manager and I'll use
an old analogy. But the
difference between process Explorer and
task manager is the difference
between shooting a bullet and
throwing it process Explorer is
that much better. Separate CPU,
history, graphs, per process, syntax
highlighting within a process to
tell you whether or not
it's running.net. If you've ever
wanted to search for a
DLL across all running processes,
to see if your DLL
is in the memory of
other processes, wow, I'm shrink
satirized. It shrinks to that
com slash C I ID
that'll take you to process
Explorer. Everything they do is
stunning. Particularly a process. Explorer
is a standout. Also auto
runs, fantastic tool. Auto runs
tells you every single thing
that starts up automatically when
your system boots. And then
one that I put on
every single machine, especially machines
where I can't afford to
buy a disc defragment or
like disc keeper is one
called page defrag, page D
a FRG. This is a
paging tool. The fragger that
will run in that kind
of weird text mode space
right before windows starts up.
Yeah. And it will defrag
your paging file. Wow. The
kind of stuff that you
can't defrag, unless you either
buy a full on D
fragger tool. I put that
on my wife's machine and
also defragments or registry. Oh,
that's awesome. Yeah. It's pretty
hot. Scott. I want to
take a minute here to
remind the listeners that Hansel
minutes would not be possible
without the generous support of
our sponsors. And one of
those sponsors is automated QA.
They make a great product
called test complete, which is
a testing tool that covers
windows apps, web apps, dot
net, framework apps, and job
apps. It's it's a complete
solution. And we'd really like
everybody right now to go
to automated qa.com checkout test
complete and tell them, thanks
for supporting Hansel minutes. I'm
sold. I'm going to spend
All night here tonight. Yeah.
Look, put all that stuff
in your path. It's absolutely
brilliant. Some of the things
that people don't realize about
their stuff, and there's a
couple of articles buried on
their site is that they
want their applications to work
anywhere, anytime on any kind
of machine without having to
do a lot of installations,
turns out that some of
those applications like, like regiment
and file Mon actually unpack
themselves when you run them,
like they have drivers and
things inside they'll they'll notice
what kind of wind, like
what version of windows you're
on. Unpack their driver loaded
up into memory on the
fly run and then undo
it when you close them.
Wow. It's there. It's amazing.
The guys are brilliant. This
was the guy. Of course
it found out the whole
Sony root kit. All right.
Yeah. Fantastic stuff. Great. Let's
move on. Okay. Let's talk
about having multiple versions of.net
on a single machine. A
lot of people complain because
XP pro doesn't let you
have multiple websites. You can
have multiple veeders, but you
can't have, you know, under
IAS administration, you can have
two instances of IAS, each
listing on a different port.
And I get lots of
questions like, well, there's different
hacks that you can do.
And you can poke around
on the registry and, and
force XP pro to do
that. But there will always
be a governor on the
throttling on XP pros, IIS,
and that's just life it's
meant not to want a
website. And I've, even though
I've heard people running with
public websites on XP pro,
well it's meant for development.
So when they ask me
like, don't you hate that
doesn't mean that you, of
a problem with not being
to run multiple websites. I
just run my stuff under
a virtual directory. I try
to write it in such
a way that if I
ever moved it out of
the virtual directory and up
to the root that the
paths that it generates internally
would be, it would be
okay. And I noticed, I
knew this somehow kind of
internally, but I noticed last
week kind of as a
reminder that you can have
of course, multiple versions of.net
running underneath asp.net. And you
can use a tool that,
that asp.net to O installs.
If you right, click on
the properties of your particular
website under IIS, there's an
ASP net tab there that
lets you pick what version
of asp.net and that's for
every site on that particular
site. And interestingly, you'll get
multiple ASP net worker processes
up and you can use
tools like process Explorer. Like
we just talked about tell
which version of.net is running
under, which yeah, because sometimes
you look in the process
in the, you look in
task manager and you can't
really tell, right. It just
gives you the ASP net
worker process. Now you can
use ASP reg eis@thecommandlineinordertoinstalldifferentversionsofhp.net on
a particular Veeder. But using
that visual tools a lot
easier. Now I got myself
in trouble a couple of
days ago when I made
a copy of a website
and just went in and
said, make it asp.net enabled.
And it defaulted to asp.net
to O and I, but
the only symptom I got
was that I couldn't debug.
I would go debug processes
from within visual studio, I'd
pick ASP net worker processing,
I would say, unable to
start debugging. And it was,
it was just pissing me
off. And then I realized
when I hit debug processes,
it was showing me the
path to which version of
ASP net worker process was
there's two versions, right? One
for each version of.net. And
if I just looked at
that text box where it
showed me the path, I
would have noticed that I
was trying from within visual
studio 2003 to debug it
2005 asp.net. Yup. Right there
in your face. Right. Took
me an hour to figure
that out. That happens. You
will never happen again. I'm
now helping people, debug problems
like this. I always seem
to end up getting involved
in that. I'm sure you
do too. Right. I mean,
I'm the it manager for
my whole family, your family,
my mom, my wife, you
know, I mean, if hanselman.com
is down, you know, I've
got cousins that are going
to call me and find
out what the heck's going
on. Right. So a couple
of my, you know, I
usually use the ask for
remote assistance, feature of windows
messenger. Yeah. Chat them. And
then they can room. I
can remote desktop into their
machines, but certainly work firewall
on. Yeah. And that only
works in XP pro. Right.
Right. So I started using
a tool called copilot. Right.
We talked about that on
an earlier show Did and,
and Abdu book, Chris emailed
me back and said, well,
co-pilot's great, but it costs
and cheap fellow that I
am. Abdu pointed me@teamviewer.com, which
appears to be basically the
same thing. No install required.
And it's 500 K freeware
lets you do desktop sharing.
Remote control has some usage
limits. I think you're allowed
to do it for half
an hour before you have
to maybe think about paying
them for licensing, but works
just like VNC and works
behind firewalls. They have a
router basically that will handle
the finding a path to
your remote system. It's free
software, energy PR. Yeah. It's
a very pretty website and
works on any version of
windows, including 2000. And I
think it's the, it's the
kind of thing I might
try on some of my,
my family's web, you know,
computers that are there behind
a firewall where I can't
get the remote desktop stuff
to work when I might
ordinarily have had to pay
10 bucks to copilot. So
very cool stuff. Thank you,
Abdu, for that, that link,
that's a trickster.com/ . I'm
going to have to take
that for a spin. Yeah,
definitely. I'm ready to go
fix something. Now I tell
you not that I don't
want to visit my relatives,
but any opportunity to fix
something remotely is a great
way to get things off
of your, to do list.
Save some time. Yeah. And
actually speaking of lists, I
was checking this out listable
list, IB Ellie, not ABL
e.com  dot com slash
C I nine. It's kind
of like, Mmm, delicious like
a social bookmarker. And it's
kind of like digg.com, but
it's basically a list manager.
Like, you know how I've
got my ultimate tools list
except I maintain it. So
it's kind of up to
me and up to the
people to wait for me
to fix lengths, they don't
really, they can say, well,
I like this or I
don't like that, but they
don't get to really collaborate
on a list. Listable is
kind of like delicious, except
things are marked up as
lists. And then people can
add to the list, all
they want and basically vote
resources as the most or
least useful resource in that
list. This is valuable. It
is amazing right there on
the top today, at least
as a windows open source
or free where with a
150 different things that are
all free, fantastic RSS feed
submission sites. Yeah, yeah. Top,
you know, and then they
are then actually ones that
aren't necessarily as interesting, like
top movies of all time
and they're all voting on
these things and sometimes it's
nonsense right now. Buckaroo Buckaroo
Banzai is the number one
movie. I don't know. Monkey
scripts. What's that? Okay. So
grease monkey. Isn't it that's
an extension. I thought they
were talking about a TV
show. No like scripts for
a show called grease monkey.
Got it. Yeah. Yeah. It
wouldn't be a show I
would want to be probably
not. Yeah. But a very
interesting stuff. Top anonymizer sites
sites for letting you browse
anonymously of course, tour being
the top tor.eff.org. There's also
some of the other less
interesting ones, like hide my
ass.com, which is a valuable
thing. If you're searching for
naughty naughty bits at the
hotel, I suppose. Yeah. Not
really. Not something I'm interested
in, but interesting, interesting stuff
that you'll find out there.
The one They take a
lot more than that to
hide my Aspen anyway. Oh
No. When you find these
kinds of a social bookmarking
sites, sometimes interesting stuff rises
to the top. If it
truly is interesting. And that's,
that's one of the benefits
of the mob, the mob
mentality, you know, the mob
can do stupid stuff, right?
And, and you know, we've
seen some of those things
on slash dot, but for
the most part mobs that
are interested in the same
topic can, can make some
interesting things. Listable is a
good place to find links
of interesting stuff, you know,
dig.com didg.com is cool. And
there's an interesting dig clone
specific for.net people called.net, kix.com
shrinks your.com/ . This is
a pretty interesting one. It's
literally a complete clone of
dig written in.net and has
all the kind of stuff
that I think people who
listen to this show and
people who listen to dotnet
rocks should be really interested
in. Yeah. Right now on
dotnet kicks.com. There's an article
on how to use my
SQL the open source database
tool with a with.net, locking
the door behind you. Very
interesting stuff. Some of these
things people have seen before
because they get submitted and
then folks say, Oh, that's
great. That's neat. And they
start moving it up the
list, but does staying on
the homepage. You're definitely gonna
find some interesting stuff. So
we were talking about add
ins here. We, we should
mention DX core. Totally Know,
folks know that I'm a
code rush fan code rush
made by the dev express
guys. And sometimes they say,
Oh, well, code, rush, cost
too much money. I don't
want to spend the money
personally. I think if you're
serious about development and you
find, you find a tool,
whether it be code rush,
or any tool that makes
your life easier, you know,
it's up to you to
give the developers of that
tool money out of respect
for their hard work. But
the code rush folks have
actually made their engine DX
core shrinks.com/cia, available to folks
to write their own plugins.
Right? I think one of
the most prolific developers of
these plugins, at least the
ones that I use is
Travis Illich, who actually works
at my company. And he's
got a really great plugin
called CR documenter@shrinks.com slash CIA.
This has been seen by
lots of people. This is
a really neat tool. If
you ever use like end
doc to auto-generate your documentation
for your.net assemblies, right? He'll
show a preview window, a
toolbox that integrates entirely with
visual studio, any version of
visual studio, and it will
pop up using the DX
core engine and sit there
and show you a preview
of what your comments will
look like. If they were
generated through indoc. This allows
you to create a lot
of really rich MSDN style
content within visual studio.net, without
having to do the entire
build and do the entire
and doc, I would also
like to add a plug
for DNR TV, which is
one of the other shows
that we produce. This is
a Camtasia show and Mark Miller
was on it. And we
spent over an hour writing
a DX core plugin on
the fly from scratch right
before your eyes. And you
can watch that at shrinks.com/c
I E. So what else
are we going to talk
about today? Well, a couple
of random links of his
interesting things. I think that
folks would dig. Nope, no
pun intended today. First one
is a hidden passage way.com.
This was pretty interesting shrinks
your.com/ . This is a
company that will put a
Batman style, hidden passageway into
your house for you. And
there's serious. What we're talking
about, like pulling back a
book and having a bookshelf
open up, you know, moving
a candlestick, they're basically they
call creative home engineering. So
they'll, they'll, they'll make a
fireplace fold back into a
panic room. Wow. It's, it's
crazy that if you like
things like, you know, like
the make, make magazine or
the make blog is do
it yourself or DIY sites.
Yeah. They'll sell a, do
it yourself kit, where you
can kind of enable your
house for secret secret passageways
and features. Very cool stuff.
Very cool. I don't think
the wife's going to go
for it. We live in
a pretty small, random suburb.
You know, where all the
houses are exactly the same.
I think someone would notice
if I, I don't know,
slipped into a bad cave
in my basement slide. So
another weird thing is I'm
always looking for puzzles and
stuff too, to show to
the wife and waste a
little bit of time at
home. And this one is
a, they call it magic
cube, four D but basically
it's a four dimensional Rubik's
cube. It's not really four
dimensional, but it it's kind
of an analog. It, it
takes a Rubik's cube and
then floats six other Rubik's
cubes themselves around the outside
of the home. You really
have to see it. The
thing that's interesting about it
is that according to their
math and I only got
so far in math, but
apparently the number of positions
that are potential on this
particular Rubik's cube are greater
than the total number of
atoms in the universe. Wow.
So they, they show you
the math and it goes
from like a regular Rubik's
cube. I think it's got
something like 43 gazillion unique
positions. It looks like basically
43 million billion positions. That's the
three directors Rubik's cube. Wow.
Wow. 40 cube has even
more apparently though, even though
it has more permutations, it's
not that hard to solve
if you're already a master
of the three D Rubik's
cube. So I am not
in fact, a master, my
technique for taking apart, the
Rubik's cube is taking apart
the Rubik's cube, putting it
back together again. Alright. What's
next? So yeah. So let
me see. paint.net. You use
that, right? I have, yeah,
it's pretty cool. The 2.6
versions out of beta. I
moved over to Dutton at
two. Oh, What are they
adding now? I mean, you
know, it started out as
just a bare bones paint
app and I can see
it going all the way
to Photoshop. Yeah. It's it's
there. It's got layers. It's
got unlimited history. It's got
more and more special effects,
totally open source. What's new
in the 2.6 version, color
curves, new blending modes, zooming
with the mouse wheel. They
can be deployed now with
active directory. So you could
build this into your corporate
deployment. It's using dotnet to,
Oh, it's wicked fast sweet
internationalization support, gift transparency. I
mean, it's just why this
is not built into Vista.
I just absolutely do not
know. They hired the kid
though. They did the kid
who they hired the kid
who made the thing. I
mean, that's really the way
to get hired now by
Microsoft. Right. You either run
an open source project or
write an incredibly awesome program
that makes windows look really
awesome. Or both or both
like this guy did. Yeah.
Boom, instant job. Now, did
you have a date now?
Here's an total jagged. Did
you have a Newton? No,
I never got into the
Newton. No. What was your
first Palm sized object? Believe
it or not. It was
an AIPAC. Ooh. Yeah. I
was all about the Newton.
Yeah, just freaking loved it.
And now there's this project
origami. Have you seen the
marketing for this now? I
haven't seen it at all.
Let's see. I think there's
a project. origami.com. Let me
check that. And this is,
this is basically the first
time that I've seen Microsoft,
not tell people about something
like years beforehand and it's
freaking people out. It's it's,
it's a small hand to
actually it's not project origami.com.
It's, it's a, it appears
to be a small handheld,
not quite a tablet, kind
of possibly a it's it
looks like Microsoft's Newton. Basically.
I'm watching the video here@shrinks.com,
C H O don't really
understand what's going on in
it yet. Scoble here@origamiproject.com is
this mysterious flash application that
has like all of these
self-referential thing. Who am I,
what am I, how will
I make your life easier?
And in that video that
you just described@trickster.com slash Cho,
you see kind of like
happy, attractive people going about
their life, except they've got
this small, not quite tablet
PC in their hands and
they're drawing on it, their
key taking notes, it's the
remote control for their media
center. They're checking their email.
You know, it's like, it's
a, it's a, it's a
small object with screens and,
and a battery and a
tablet that's much, much smaller
than a tablet PC. It
looks kind of like the
OQR remember that. Remember that?
Yeah, sure. It looks kind
of like an Oak, except
the  was just trying
to be at a laptop
for people with incredibly small
hands. What, what, you know,
I dunno, what's it? Microsoft
is in the software business.
Are they manufacturing this Hardware?
No, because if you look,
if you poke around on
Google searching for project origami,
there appear to be already
a number of hardware vendors
lined up to make this
stuff. So I, it feels
to me like tiny windows
XP with a different shell.
Yeah. So, I mean, maybe
this, maybe this is another
way to get a tablet
out there. I'm not sure,
but it also seems to
have media center aspects to
it. The, in the video
about halfway through the girl
users, those are remote control,
right? Not sure, but where
do I, where do I
pay? I don't know. I'm
ready, dude. Let's go. It's
still a clandestine project. So
March on March 2nd, it will
be less clandestine. Okay. But
I, we usually, we just
watch end gadget to, for,
for all the details. Right.
Okay. Yeah. It's bizarre. Check
it out. Cool, Scott, before
we wrap it up, you're
going to be talking somewhere
Ghana. Yeah, I'm doing a
poor man's road show. I'll
be in Vancouver on March 6th
next Monday. And I'll be
in Victoria on March 7th. And
I'm gonna be talking about
DAS blog and we're going
to take it apart and
see if there's any useful
code within Dodge blog that
people can use in their
own projects. It's going to
be kind of anatomy of
a blogging engine. Sounds great.
So if you happen to
be in Vancouver next week,
come up and see Scott.
All right. Well, that's a
show, Scott. Thanks a lot
for talking to us and
for the listeners, we'll talk
to you next week on
Hanselman's.